---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E1:UI Basics Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-09-13
published: true
labels:

---

Browser Hisory 1
  Browser History 1 was essentially an assignment to create a functional webpage, which included adding pictures, headings, lists, paragraphs, and links to both different websites and internal paragraphs. 
  This first WOD was pretty difficult for me because it was the first time that I had been pressured to deliver some type of code within a certain period of time. Beforehand, looking at the different sources we've been provided and pretty much copying to a lab or whatnot had been easy. However, realizing that I had to know different functions off the top of my head was definitely new and took a bit of getting used to in terms of memorization. At first, I attempted the WOD and eventually got stuck on trying to add links to the internal paragraphs. After struggling to remember how, I for some reason tried another time without watching the screencast and got stuck again on the same issue. I then turned to the screencast to watch it and realized what the necessary code was. I was able to complete the WOD in sufficient time post-screencast but totally forgot to speak during the whole thing. In fact, I was playing music out loud from my laptop the whole time. Therefore, I had to once again do it the next day and commentate on each individual step.
  My advice is to read the directions of the WOD very carefully before attempting it and really understand the different requirements. Then ensure that you know how to use the code for these different processes. Next, if you really don't know something, it's better to watch the screencast after an attempt rather than believing that you can magically conjure the answer if you tried again. This only added to my frustration. Lastly and most importantly, make sure to record yourself speaking so you don't have to do the entire thing again. 
  
 Browser History 2
   Browser History 2 really focused on CSS and visually editing the webpage I had previously created. 
   My first attempt for this WOD ended very abruptly when I didn't really know how to add the font for the webpage as it wasn't really working. I sat there for quite a while trying to think what I had done wrong and looked up the directions on adding fonts. I just moved on and tested the other directions but ultimately knew that I couldn't use this WOD attempt. After this, I ended up watching the screencast all the way through and learned a lot including how to bring the picture inline with the text and also adding in a link to the google fonts in the html file. The second attempt went really smooth becuase I personally believe CSS is a little less complicated than adding different functions in html. I ended up finishing with a great time and a completely new looking webpage that I was proud of.
   My advice for this WOD is to just review the CSS functions and customizations beforehand. The instructions were pretty clear exactly what is needed so finding the necessities in the beginning was easy. VSCode also really helped me with these if I forgot some of the speciic details in terms of characters in the code because of the suggestions that popped up as I typed. I realied a lot on that but hopefully will use less of it in the future. I also remembered to record myself this time, which is a plus. 
   
 Browser History 3
   Browser History 3 included a lot of formatting in terms of different sections and margins. 
   I had an incredibly hard time with this WOD because I could not format the sections into the right places (3 sections side by side). I attempted this WOD without really looking at what I needed because I figured that formatting would be easy. However, I quickly realized that putting margins in CSS for paragraphs was not working. I once again had to watch the screencast for the directions because I was completely lost. I went through it with the screencast and attempted to at least get a working file where I could read the code and figure out what does what. However, for some reason I kept getting stuck over and over again with the sections misaligning. I isnpected the webpage in Google Chrome and the third section kept attaching itself to the other two in terms of identification. I was getting quite confused and jsut kept trying over and over again from what I had seen in the screencast. Eventually, I realized that I had made a pretty idiotic mistake and in CSS had replaced "width" with "margin." After catching this I went back and did the WOD as a whole and ended with a pretty decent time. I was happy that I was able to get that time because I had attempeted it 5 times prior.
   My advice for this specific WOD is to really check your work. I learned that in terms of margins and sections, there are a lot of errors that you can't really physically see like you could if you were to edit things such as fonts. For example if a font isn't working you know exactly where to go. However, for me, margins were really all over the place in CSS and I wasn't sure if things such as the inline functions or the division function were wrong as well. It was ultimately one small mistake in one word that really messed it up so checking thoroughly is always a great idea.
    
